Configuration
====

List of configuration properties and their descripation.

## reference (optional)

The `reference` is used to refer to configuration defined outside of the current project.

### repository

Specifies a Git clonable URI were the external configuration is been versioned

### path

Specifies were the external configuration is installed on the current filesystem.

> [!NOTE]
> The path should be relative to the current project, because there is no mean to know how users structure their files.
> Using this property also sets a standard on how a set of projects get structured on the filesystem : at least between the depths from the current project to the shared configuration.
> Communicate it within the team !

## commit

The `commit` block is used to define the standard for commit messages.

> [!NOTE]
> Inspiration for the structure are `Conventional Commits` patterns like [this one](https://gist.github.com/qoomon/5dfcdf8eec66a051ecd85625518cfd13).
> Different projects have different people, so this tool won't force you into a specific pattern, although we propose one in the default configuration.

All type can be freely defined within the limits of the tool.
If something is not doable, please file an issue.

### types

A list of commit types.

#### type

Handle of the type.

### description

Description of the type.

### defaut_type

Specifies the default type for your project.

### message_template

The message template is a powerful tool to enforce a certain format and even rearrenge parts of it in combination with Lexemes.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> It makes use of go templates to modify the provided text.
> You may use build-in template functions by Masterminds Sprig package
> documentation can be found here https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/

### no_formatting

The list of types that will not be processed by the message template.
You may want to ignore certain commits that are not relevant to the project's history like typos, ...

> [!TIP]
> Helpful if you plan to use your commit history for an autogenerated changelog (see exemples).

### tokenizer_options

This block is the most important for the message validation and formatting.

It uses basic Natural Language Processing principles to split, clean and recognise parts of the message (like issue manager references).

#### language_codes

List of accepted language codes for the commit messages.
With this, you can restrict messages to specific languages.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Use [ISO-639-1 language codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639_language_codes) like "en", "de", ...

#### language_detection_options

This block use configures the way language detection will be done.

All languages provided by the [pemistahl/lingua-go](https://github.com/pemistahl/lingua-go?tab=readme-ov-file#3-which-languages-are-supported) library are activated

> [!IMPORTANT]
> A minimal word count is necessary in order to get good language detection chances.
> Below that minimum count, the detector will return your configured default language.

##### default_language_code

A default ISO-639-1 language code, like `en`, `de`, ...

##### default_language_Name

The default language plain name, like `english`, `german`, ...

##### minimum_word_count

The minimum cound of message words under which your `default_language_code` and `default_language_Name` get returned.

##### confidence_thresthold

Language minimum thresthold at with the detection is considered valid.

#### confidence_thresthold

Token minimum thresthold at which a word is attributed to a specific token.

#### lexemes

This block defines komplex "words" that can be detected in the commit message and directly linked to a specific token.

Lexemes can be language sensitive and attributed to a specific language.

##### name

Name of the lexeme.

##### token

Name of the token it references.

##### description

Description for the lexeme.

##### language_code

The language for which the lexeme is relevant.

> [!TIP]
> If your lexeme describes a technical token and is not related to any language,
> you may use `*` as value (relevant to all languages).




##### variants

List of different forms the token can take and their matching definitions.

###### name

Name of the Variant.

###### description

Description of the variant.

###### matcher

A golang regular expression for the variant.

###### normalisers

List of mormalisation steps to be applied to this specific variant.
For the block properties [look here](#normalisers)


